# Recursion

## Quick Review

In the previous chapter, we learned how to define a function and its
parameters.

::: admonition
Example

``` js
function addTwoToNumber(num){
   return num += 2;
}

console.log(addTwoToNumber(12));
```

**Console Output**

    14
:::

When called, the parameter `num` is passed an argument, which in this
case is the number `12`. The function executes and returns the value
`14`, which the `console.log` statement prints.

### Functions Can Call Other Functions

Functions should only accomplish one (preferably simple) task. To solve
more complicated tasks, one small function must call other functions.

::: admonition
Example

``` js
function addTwoToNumber(num){
   return num += 2;
}

function addFiveToNumber(value){
   let result = addTwoToNumber(value) + 3;
   return result;
}

console.log(addFiveToNumber(12))
```

**Console Output**

    17
:::

Of course, there is no need to write a function to add 5 to a value, but
the example demonstrates calling a function from within another
function.

::: index
! recursion
:::

## What Is Recursion?

In programming, the *divide and conquer* strategy solves a problem by
breaking it down into smaller, simpler pieces. If these pieces *can all
be solved in exactly the same way*, then we gain an additional
advantage. Solving the big problem becomes a process of completing and
combining the smaller parts.

Splitting up a large task into smaller, identical pieces allows us to
reuse a single function rather than coding several different functions.
We accomplish this by either:

a.  Setting up a loop to call one function lots of times, OR
b.  Building a function that splits up the large problem for us, until a
    *simplest case* is found and solved.

**Recursion** is the process of solving a larger problem by breaking it
into smaller pieces that *can all be solved in exactly the same way*.
The clever idea behind recursion is that instead of using a loop, a
function simply calls *itself* over and over again, with each step
reducing the size of the problem.

Through recursion, a problem eventually gets reduced to a very simple
task, which can be immediately solved. This small answer sets up the
solution for the previous step, which in turn solves the next bigger
step. Properly built, the function combines all of the small answers to
solve the original problem.

Many new programmers (and even veteran ones) find recursion an abstract
and tricky concept. One helpful way to approach the idea is to walk
through an example.
