# Filesystem and Paths

::: index
! filesystem, directory, subdirectory, root directory, parent directory
:::

A **filesystem** is a structure for the computer to store the files and
folders that make up the data of the operating system.

Inside a filesystem, folders are referred to as **directories**. Folders
that exist inside other folders are called **subdirectories**. A **root
directory** can refer to a few different things but essentially means
the top-most directory of a given system. In other words, a root
directory is not a sub-directory - but it will probably contain its own
subdirectories. Inside the machine you work with called your computer,
the root directory is the location of primary hard drive - in Windows,
that\'s your C drive; in a Mac, the root directory is represented as
`/`. The root directory is the **parent directory** for the folders
stored inside of it.

::: admonition
Example

Most of you have a `Desktop` folder on your computer. If there is a
folder on your Desktop called \"LC101_Homework\", then the parent
directory of `LC101_Homework` is `Desktop`.
:::

A **path** for files and folders is the list of parent directories that
the computer must go through to find that particular item.

Filesystems have two different types of paths: absolute and relative.
The **absolute path** is the path to a file from the root directory. The
**relative path** is the path to a file from the current directory. When
working with a relative path, you may find yourself wanting to go up
into a parent directory to find a file in a different sub, or child,
directory. In order to do so, you can use `..` in the file path to tell
the computer to go up to the parent directory.

::: admonition
Example

We have a file inside our `LC101_Homework` directory from the above
example. We named that file `homework.js`. The absolute path for
`homework.js` is `/Users/LaunchCodeStudent/Desktop/LC101_Homework` for
Mac users and `C:\windows\Desktop\LC101_Homework` for Windows users. If
the current directory is `Desktop`, then the relative path for
`homework.js` is `/LC101_Homework` for Mac users and `\LC101_Homework`
for Windows users.

Say `homework.js` is in a different directory called
`CoderGirl_Homework`. `CoderGirl_Homework` is inside the `Desktop`
directory. Your current directory is `LC101_Homework`. In this scenario,
we would use the `..` syntax in our relative path. The relative path
would then be `/../CoderGirl_Homework` for Mac users and
`\..\CoderGirl_Homework` for Windows users.
:::

Many programmers use paths to navigate through the filesystem in the
terminal. We will discuss the commands to do so in the next section.
