# The JavaScript Language

::: index
JavaScript
:::

**JavaScript** is one of many programming languages, each of which
serves different purposes. Programmers mainly use JavaScript for web
development, and it is currently the most popular language that runs
inside a web browser. *Running inside the browser* means that the code
loads at the same time as a web page and can modify the content.
JavaScript can add or remove text, change colors, produce animations,
and react to mouse and keyboard clicks. This makes the web page
*dynamic*\-\--it responds to user actions in real time, and changes
occur without having to refresh the page.

::: index
! front end
:::

This cool feature allows immediate updates to your profile when you post
a status, change the color of the "Submit" button after you complete a
form, generate a map when you request directions, or create a sparkly
trail that follows the mouse pointer. All of the changes to what you see
on the web page are part of **front end** development. They are present
on your computer.

::: index
! Back end
:::

**Back end** development involves passing data between web pages and
servers. JavaScript can be used for back end development, but other
languages like Java and C# are industry standards. When you fill out a
form online and click \"Submit\", back end code transfers the
information you entered to the company that posted the form. Your
information now exists on the company's servers.

The ins and outs of how the internet works will be covered throughout
this book. While important to understand why we are learning JavaScript,
we won't quiz you on servers and front end development now!

## Front End vs. Back End Changes

![](figures/Front-vs-back-end.png)
